# Stock Index Prediction Using DP-LSTMs and Sentiment Analysis

Financial analysts and investors have constantly been challenged by the complexity and dynamic aspect of stock markets. One of the most researched problems in quantitative finance is the behavioral prediction of stock indices such as the SP500, on which we focus the following. The reason is that stock indices are good indicators of the overall performance of a particular market or sector. Traditionally, stock index prediction approaches have relied on fundamental data analysis of companies' financial health underlying the index. In recent years and with the rise of technology, researchers have turned to machine learning techniques that use historical data to predict stock indices(\cite{jain2019deep}). These techniques are promising because neural networks, for instance, can understand highly nonlinear relationships between input features fed into the model and the desired output(\cite{che2017deep}). That’s what empowers them with expressiveness and is theoretically a great fit for problems involving features as volatile and unpredictable as stocks. The potential benefits of accurate stock index prediction are immense, and there is room for improvement. People's sentiments can cascade the stock market, as positive or negative news and emotions can influence investors' decision-making, ultimately driving buying or selling activity and affecting stock prices. Inspired by the non-linearity found in the financial literature, in particular stocks intraday close prices and news sentiment analysis, this paper examines whether or not stock index prediction can be improved by incorporating sentiment. Specifically, we will use LSTMs which have shown the ability to model temporal dependencies in time-series data in recent years.
